.TH CARGOFORGE 1 "2026-06-23" "cargoforge 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
cargoforge \- maritime cargo-stowage and stability simulator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cargoforge
.RB [ --json ]
.RB [ --strict ]
.I ship_config_file cargo_list_file
.br
.B cargoforge
.BR --help | --version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cargoforge
reads a ship configuration and a cargo manifest, places each cargo item
across the ship's holds and deck using a 2D shelf bin-packing heuristic that
keeps the center of gravity near amidships, and reports the resulting
stability \(em center of gravity (CG) and metacentric height (GM).
.PP
A plan whose total weight exceeds the ship's maximum is rejected. A positive
GM means the ship self-rights when heeled; GM at or below zero means it
capsizes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --json
Emit the loading plan and stability summary as a single JSON object on
standard output (machine-readable).
.TP
.B --strict
Exit non-zero if the plan is not fully successful \(em any cargo unplaced,
the plan overweight, or the ship unstable (GM \(<= 0.15 m).
.TP
.BR -h ", " --help
Print usage and exit.
.TP
.BR -v ", " --version
Print the version and exit.
.SH "FILE FORMATS"
.SS "Ship config (key=value, # comments)"
Required keys:
.BR length_m ", " width_m ", " max_weight_tonnes .
Optional:
.BR lightship_weight_tonnes ", " lightship_kg_m ", and " holds
(number of below-deck holds, 1\(en50, default 2).
.SS "Cargo manifest (whitespace-separated, # comments)"
Columns: identifier, weight in tonnes, LxWxH dimensions in metres, and a
type label.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.TP
.B 0
Success (and, with
.BR --strict ,
a fully successful plan).
.TP
.B 1
A parse error, bad arguments, or \(em under
.BR --strict
\(em an unplaced, overweight, or unstable plan.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
cargoforge examples/sample_ship.cfg examples/sample_cargo.txt
cargoforge --json examples/realistic_ship.cfg examples/realistic_cargo.txt
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
CargoForge-C contributors:
.br
https://github.com/alikatgh/CargoForge-C
